# about AWS Cloud Practitioner Certification

- It takes 1-2 weeks to get prepared.
- costs \$100 / takes up to 90 min / 70% grade is a pass

Content:

- cloud concepts: 28%
- secutiry: 24%
- technology: 36%
- billing / pricing: 12%

Types of answers:

- multiple choice and multiple response.

Cloud computing
Six advantages of cloud computing:

1. trade capital expence for variable expense.
   no upfront costs. Instead of paying for data centers and servers.
   pay on-demand. Pay only when consume computing resourses.

2. benefit from massive economies of scale. Usage from hundreded of thousands of customers aggregated in the cloud.
   You are shaing the cost with other customers to get unbeatable savings.

3. Stop guessing capacity. Eleminate guess work about infrastructure capacity needs.
   Instead of paying for idle or underutilized servers, you can scale up and down to meet the current need.

4. increase speed and agility.
   Launch resources within a few clicks in minutes instead of waiting dasy or weeks of your IT to implement the solution.

5. Stop spending money on running and maintaining data centers. Focus on your own customer and core works.

6. go global in minutes. Deploy app in multiple regions around the world with a few clicks.

Types of cloud computing:
SaaS: for customers
PaaS: for developers. Platform as a service. Heroku.
IaaS: for admins. Infrastructure as a service. AWS, google cloud platform, MS Azure.

Cloud Computing Deployment Models
Cloud: fully on cloud: basecamp, Casual, Dropbox. for Startups, new projects and companies.
Hybrid: both cloud and on-premise. Banks, FinTech, logistics.
On-premise: govermental and public service esp dealing with sensitive data.

- AWS Global Infrastructure
  ⌨️ (0:19:27) Introduction and Map Overview

* 69 Zones in 22 geographical regions.
* At least two AZs per geographical loation. All have different and independent supplies.
* US-East North Virginia is the largest region and AZ. Services become avaialbe in US-East first.
* billing information is in this region.
  ⌨️ (0:20:30) Regions
  ⌨️ (0:24:30) Availability Zones
  ⌨️ (0:25:42) Edge Locations
  ⌨️ (0:27:27) GovCloud Regions

- Getting Started
  ⌨️ (0:29:20) Creating an AWS Account
  ⌨️ (0:32:43) Billing Preferences, Budgets and Alarms
- setting alarms/notification in CloudWatch. Free tier 10 alarms and 1000 notification/m.
- setting in US-East(N.Virgina)  
  ⌨️ (0:40:09) Change IAM Users Sign-in Link
- it is important to login not with a root account and create users for the team members.
  ⌨️ (0:41:14) Activate MFA on Root Account
  ⌨️ (0:43:40) Create individual IAM (identity and access managment) user
- type of users few admins and more power users.
  ⌨️ (0:48:44) Set a password policy

☁️ Hands On
⌨️ (0:49:50) Intro and Regions
⌨️ (0:51:03) EC2

- consider SSM (simple systems manager) way to connet to the instanse. It is a separate service on AWS.
- SSM records sessions that users have.
  ⌨️ (0:55:36) Sessions Manager
  ⌨️ (0:58:36) AMI
- copy or snapshot of the instance.
- AMI (amazon machine images) allows to save image and launch the same instance easily or have a backup for scaling.
  ⌨️ (1:00:32) Auto Scaling Groups
- it allows to check if server capacity is enought, and scale up if not or down if necessary.
  ⌨️ (1:07:31) Elastic Load Balancer

* ELB - when traffic goes on the instance and we elastic load balancer distributes traffic evenly to prevent overload. And the will be no downtime.
* there are three types of load balancers: application LB (https), network LB (TCP/TLS/UDP), classic LB

- should run in at least two AZ
  ⌨️ (1:12:47) S3
- S3 is global, it does not require regions selection.
- while buckets created are region specific.
  ⌨️ (1:14:29) CloudFront
- CDN (cloud distribution network) it is connected to the bucket and copy content to different locations.
  ⌨️ (1:16:52) RDS - relational databases
- there is free version for 7.5 hours/month
  ⌨️ (1:22:00) Lambda
- allows not to use server to run the code, but it runs it only for 15 min.
- serverless computing platform

☁️ EC2 Pricing Models
⌨️ (1:25:28) Introduction
⌨️ (1:25:46) On-Demand
⌨️ (1:26:19) Reserved
⌨️ (1:28:52) Spot
⌨️ (1:30:38) Dedicated
⌨️ (1:32:11) EC2 Pricing CheatSheet

☁️ Billing and Pricing
⌨️ (1:35:04) Free Services
⌨️ (1:36:08) AWS Support Plans
⌨️ (1:40:05) Follow Along - Lets create a support case
⌨️ (1:44:05) AWS Marketplace
⌨️ (1:45:05) Follow Along - Marketplace subscription
⌨️ (1:50:45) AWS Trusted Advisor
⌨️ (1:54:13) Follow Along Trusted Advisor
⌨️ (1:55:43) Consolidated Billing
⌨️ (1:56:54) Consolidated Billing Volume Discounts
⌨️ (1:58:36) AWS Cost Explorer
⌨️ (2:00:16) AWS Cost Explorer Follow Along
⌨️ (2:04:16) AWS Budgets
⌨️ (2:06:31) AWS Budgets Follow Along
⌨️ (2:10:24) TCO Calculator
⌨️ (2:11:20) TCO Calculator Follow ALong
⌨️ (2:14:44) AWS Landing Zone
⌨️ (2:17:28) Resource Groups and Tagging
⌨️ (2:18:37) Resource Groups Follow Along
⌨️ (2:23:40) AWS QuickStart
⌨️ (2:26:48) AWS Cost and Usage Report
⌨️ (2:27:32) Cost and Usage Follow Along

☁️ Technology Overview
⌨️ (2:30:18) AWS Organizations and Accounts
⌨️ (2:31:43) AWS Organizations Follow Along
⌨️ (2:44:13) AWS Networking
⌨️ (2:47:27) Database Services
⌨️ (2:51:31) Provisioning Services
⌨️ (2:56:01) Computing Services
⌨️ (3:00:05) Storage Services
⌨️ (3:03:52) Business Centric Services
⌨️ (3:07:28) Enterprise Integration
⌨️ (3:09:13) Logging Services
⌨️ (3:12:33) Know your Initialisms

☁️ Security
⌨️ (3:13:49) Shared Responsibility Model
⌨️ (3:15:34) AWS Compliance programs
⌨️ (3:17:59) AWS Artifact
⌨️ (3:19:05) AWS Artifact Follow Along
⌨️ (3:21:35) Amazon Inspector
⌨️ (3:23:04) AWS WAF
⌨️ (3:24:17) AWS Shield
⌨️ (3:27:42) Penetration Testing
⌨️ (3:29:29) Guard Duty
⌨️ (3:31:13) Key Management Service
⌨️ (3:32:50) Amazon Macie
⌨️ (3:35:06) Security Groups vs NACLs
⌨️ (3:37:02) AWS VPN

☁️ Variation Study
⌨️ (3:38:10) Cloud* Service
⌨️ (3:40:14) *Connect Service
⌨️ (3:41:28) Elastic Transcoder vs Media Convert
⌨️ (3:42:50) SNS vs SQS
⌨️ (3:45:17) Inspector vs Trusted Advisor
⌨️ (3:46:41) ALB vs NLB vs CLB
⌨️ (3:49:07) SNS vs SES
⌨️ (3:50:58) Artifact vs Inspector

☁️ Summary
⌨️ (3:51:49) Journey's End
⌨️ (3:52:10) Booking Your Exam
⌨️ (3:57:34) Thank You and Good Luck!
